May 26
In Minneapolis, a group of rowdy protesters spray-painted graffiti on the precinct building and smashed windows of an empty police vehicle while some protesters urged them to stop.
May 27
In Minneapolis, one mile (1.6 km) from the main protest site, Calvin Horton Jr. died after being fatally shot at a pawn shop that was being looted. The owner of the pawn shop was initially arrested in connection with incident, but he was later released without charges and the case remained open as of late June 2020. Also on May 27, a man known as "Umbrella Man" dressed in black clothes and gas mask, carrying an umbrella and sledgehammer, was recorded on video breaking windows of an AutoZone store, spray painting graffiti, and encouraging looting. Some protesters confronted him and asked him to stop. He was later revealed to have ties to white supremacist organizations. A local police investigator said he was deliberately attempting to incite rioting and looting.
May 28
In Minneapolis, federal and state authorities recovered a body on July 20, 2020, at the Max It Pawn store that appeared to have suffered thermal injuries. The pawn shop, located several blocks east of the city's third precinct station and in an area of heavy rioting, was destroyed by fire on May 28. A 25-year-old man from Rochester, Minnesota was federally charged in June with arson for the fire at the pawn shop.
May 29
In Detroit, a 21-year-old man was killed when his car was fired upon in Downtown Detroit. He was shot in the middle of police brutality demonstrations, although police claimed the incident had no connection to the protests.
In Oakland, California, amid unrest, a Federal Protective Service officer, David Patrick Underwood, was fatally shot outside a federal courthouse in a drive-by attack that also wounded another guard. Underwood had been providing security at the courthouse during a protest. The Department of Homeland Security labeled the shooting an act of domestic terrorism. Boogaloo movement member Steven Carrillo was charged with the murder on June 16. He was also implicated in the murder of a Santa Cruz County deputy. The white van allegedly used in the murder had "Boog" and "I became unreasonable" written in blood on the vehicle's hood. Investigators also found Boogaloo symbols including a ballistic vest with a US flag with an igloo instead of stars.
May 30
In St. Louis, Missouri, 29-year-old protester Barry Perkins died after being run over by a FedEx truck that was fleeing from looters.
In Omaha, Nebraska, 22-year-old protester James Scurlock was fatally shot outside of a bar. The shooter was Jacob Gardner, the bar-owner, who had a scuffle with some protesters and fired several shots, one of which killed Scurlock. Two days later, authorities announced that there would be no charges for the bar's owner and that he had opened fire in self-defense. However, after pushback, the matter was referred to a grand jury for review.
May 31
In Indianapolis, two people were fatally shot in the vicinity of protests or riots downtown. One of them was 18-year-old Dorian Murell, killed around 2:30am on June 1; a 29-year-old man turned himself in to the police, maintaining Murell had pushed him down, and was subsequently charged with murder on June 2. The other was 38-year-old Chris Beaty, a local business owner, who was shot shortly before midnight May 31.
In Kansas City, Missouri, 50-year-old Marvin Francois was shot and killed by robbers while picking up one of his sons from a protest.
In Chicago, 32-year-old John Tiggs was fatally struck in the abdomen by shots fired inside a Metro by T-Mobile store while walking into the building to pay his bill during lootings in the city's South Side.
In Riverside, Illinois, 22-year old Myqwon Blanchard from Chicago was fatally shot by a gunman during the looting of the North Riverside Park Mall.
June 1
In Louisville, local restauranteur David McAtee was killed as a Louisville Metro Police and Kentucky National Guard curfew patrol fired at him. Authorities stated that the patrol returned gunfire after McAtee fired at them. McAtee's gunshot occurred after the patrol appeared to fire a pepper ball into McAtee's restaurant, nearly striking his niece in the head. According to McAtee's sister, the gathering was not a protest but rather a regularly scheduled social gathering at which McAtee served food from his barbecue restaurant. An investigation of the killing is ongoing. LMPD Chief Steve Conrad was fired later that day, as officers and troops involved in the shooting did not wear or failed to activate body cameras. Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer admitted that the city had shown an "inability to apply [curfew] evenly."
In Davenport, Iowa, two people were fatally shot on a night with significant rioting. One of the victims was 22-year-old Italia Marie Kelly, killed in an apparent random shooting as she was leaving a demonstration. Another person, Marquis M. Tousant, was found dead at the scene of an ambush on an unmarked police truck that left a police officer wounded.
In Cicero, Illinois, two men were fatally shot in separate incidents following an "afternoon of unrest"; this was confirmed by Cicero Police. Town spokesman Ray Hanania said the shots were fired by "outside agitators." The two men were both described as bystanders and were identified as 28-year-old Jose Gutierrez and 27-year-old Victor Cazares Jr.
In Las Vegas, police shot and killed Jorge Gomez, who was walking among protesters and reportedly reached for his firearm when he was shot. In a separate incident, police officer Shay Mikalonis was hospitalized in critical condition after being shot by Edgar Samaniego, while Mikalonis and other officers were arresting protesters near Circus Circus Hotel and Casino.
June 2
In Philadelphia, a man was fatally shot by the owner of the gun shop Firing Line Inc., while trying to break into the store in the south section of the city. Mayor Jim Kenney said he was "deeply troubled" by the killing and that he did not condone vigilantism.
In Philadelphia, during the fourth day of unrest, a 24-year-old man was severely injured after attempting to use an explosive device to destroy an ATM machine. He was rushed to a local hospital before being pronounced dead.
In St. Louis, 77-year-old retired police captain David Dorn was shot and killed by looters at a pawn shop. The shooting was streamed on Facebook Live.
In Vallejo, California, Sean Monterrosa, a 22-year-old man, was shot and killed by police while on his knees. Monterrosa lifted his hands, which revealed a 15-inch hammer tucked in his pocket police said they mistook for a handgun. A police officer in a vehicle then fired on him five times through the windshield. Monterrosa later died at a local hospital. The police were responding to a call over alleged looting at a Walgreens, according to police chief Shawny Williams. The day after his death police revealed that "there had been an 'officer-involved shooting'" at a press conference, yet declined to offer further details, including the name of the officer involved. The event reportedly sparked intense outrage in the Bay Area, particularly in Vallejo, which was identified as having a long history of police violence, excessive force complaints, and high-profile killings like the shooting of Willie McCoy.
June 3
In Bakersfield, California, Robert Forbes, a 50-year-old man was killed after being struck by a vehicle while marching between California Avenue and Oak Street. The incident was caught on video and distributed widely on social media. Forbes was transported to Kern Medical Center, where he remained in critical condition for three days before dying. Police deny that Forbes was hit intentionally, while others dispute this claim. The police did not restrain the driver with handcuffs and allowed him to smoke a cigarette, which caused indignation on social media. A candlelight vigil was held for Forbes on June 6.
June 20
In Seattle, a 19-year-old man was killed and another person was hospitalized with life-threatening injuries after being fired on multiple times inside the city's Capitol Hill Autonomous Zone. Police stated they were denied entry to the area to render aid; instead, Capitol Hill Organized Protest medics took the two victims to Harborview Medical Center. A later investigation by KUOW showed that miscommunication between Seattle police and Seattle Fire delayed city response to the victim.
June 27
A shooting occurred at Jefferson Square Park in downtown Louisville, Kentucky during a protest. A 27-year-old photographer who supported the protests against racism and police brutality was killed. Another person was injured. Overnight camping at the park was banned after the shooting, and police removed tents from the park. One suspect was arrested, interviewed by homicide detectives, and charged with murder and wanton endangerment. The suspect was hospitalized as he was wounded by gunfire from civilians defending themselves.
June 29
In Seattle, a 16-year-old boy was killed and a 14-year-old was critically injured in their Jeep Grand Cherokee after being shot in the Capitol Hill Organized Protest (CHOP) by the Protest's security forces.
July 4
In Seattle, 24-year-old Summer Taylor died after being hit by a vehicle while protesting on Interstate 5. A second person also hit was in critical condition. A suspect was taken into custody a few hours later after the incident.
In Atlanta, 8-year-old Secoriea Turner was fatally shot by a yet-unknown suspect when the driver of an SUV (in which she was a passenger), tried to get past what police say was a “makeshift roadblock manned by various armed individuals“ near the site where Rayshard Brooks was killed in June. 19-year-old Julian Conley, one of the men who had been at the scene, turned himself in to police after his photo was released as a person of interest. Conley said he was armed but did not use his weapon when he witnessed the SUV hit one of the men at the roadblock, who then fired at the vehicle.
July 5
In Indianapolis, 24-year old Jessica Doty Whitaker was killed after she, her fiance, and two other friends got into an argument with another group of people regarding the Black Lives Matter movement. The argument between the two armed groups allegedly began when someone in Whitaker's group used a slang version of the 'N-word.' Whitaker responded to chants of 'Black lives matter' by saying 'all lives matter,' and though her fiance seemingly deescalated the situation, as the two groups were parting, Whitaker was hit by gunfire and later died in the hospital.
July 25
In Austin, 28-year old Garrett Foster was killed in a shooting at a Black Lives Matter protest in Downtown Austin. The incident happened around 9:52 p.m. near East Sixth Street and Congress Avenue, according to Austin-Travis County EMS. In an update, police said initial reports indicate that Foster was carrying an AK-47 style rifle when he approached the suspect's vehicle. Witnesses claim that Foster had pointed the rifle at the vehicle. The suspect then pulled out his own firearm and shot Foster. He was then taken to the hospital where he was pronounced dead. The suspect was shortly detained and is cooperating with authorities. Austin Police have not released much information on the case as it is too early in the investigation. Foster's mother, Shelia, appeared on Good Morning America the following morning and said that her son was pushing his fiancee's wheelchair moments before he was killed.
August 25
After the shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin, a series of protests and riots rose in the city. On the night of August 25, two people were killed in a shootout in Kenosha.
